all right tubers this is the motor
that's going to be going into it's going
to be going into my dad's van I borrowed
it until I got my top four belt and
we're going to be pulling this guy out
of here I'm gonna start taking my fuel
line off take my return spring off my
carburetor off get my cable off of it
so on and so forth the norm I don't know
if you can see back here case you've
never taken a motor out of a Volkswagen
not hard at all you got to take this nut
off here getting that right here you got
to take off and two on the bottom the
biggest amount of work in this in my
mind really is where I made all this
sheet metal because the top four came
factory in this I made all this out of
galvanized and it really needs to be
painted because it oxidizes so bad and
gets so dirty but I had a hand bent all
this sheet metal wife to take all of it
off and we'll get this booger out of
here I got the fuel line loose there's
some wiring and a few other small things
I need to take care of these are these
lines here from my old cooler
so I'm gonna start taking all this old
pump and everything is going to go with
this motor I had some loose line here
this went to an electric Chuck that I
never did I'm never going to take this
loose so let me go ahead before I get
too involved I'm gonna go ahead and get
my battery taking this here of course
this is only active when the ignition is
on but it's always good to disconnect
the battery
regardless okay gang just gonna check in
with you what I've done so far I've got
my my alternator all three wires on the
fit you gotta you got your hot wire and
then you've got your blue wire it
normally blue that goes to your idiot
light and then you've got a ground got
all that loose I've got my hot wire
come on Kolpak got it taken loose the
sending unit wire here plus my stock oil
pressure switch here I've got both of
those unhooked just about ready to go
I've got my
old cooler got both of these lines I've
got to get taken loose one thing I just
want to mention if you've never done
this before
when you go to take your engine out
don't forget to pull your cable through
to pull it back through the tube don't
forget to do that I'm gonna go ahead and
get all of the team the engine
compartment and I'm gonna take it all
loose and then we'll get this thing
jacked up and see if we get the motor
out ever now like I mentioned before
I've got to stop and get my accelerator
cable and make sure it's all the way
through this sleep I put this piece of
tubing in here I hope you can see that
or not it's used a brake line got a
brake line and make mom to let me make
sure I got the cable through there and
we'll see about getting this on the
ground
got a three day now
now I won't see if I can get it all the
way back past the bell housing and start
easing it down real slow the jack goes
back a little bit when you let it down
hit the stop pull it forward a little
bit and he ease it on down
all right now what you have to do he's
kind of tilted back it helps to have
another hand with this especially when
you've got things like dual carbs on
each side so you don't tilt it back and
banging on anything so you need
sometimes depends on if you how familiar
you are with the Volkswagen and the Trix
and so on and so forth getting one out
you can put blocks up here let this down
off the block and slide a block out on
this side slide the block out on this
side or you can tilt it back it's it's a
lot easier from my experience have an
extra hand tilt it back and have
somebody pull the jack out so after I
get this thing on the ground I'll be
back
all right tubers what I had to do
had to get a jack back under there
because when it was sitting on the jack
stands I'll zoom in a little bit had
jack stands under both sides I'd go and
put my jack on it and Jack it up just
enough to where I could clear my fan
shroud and this motor here is I'm going
to clean it up it's filthy from where I
had that old line blow on me it sprayed
oil all over it
I'm gonna clean it up real good and
we're gonna be putting it in 76 model
like I said this was just borrowed my
engine is over here all covered up with
everything where haven't worked on it
and so long it's type four right here if
you can see it under there not this is
going to be going in this vein here I
just borrowed this one just until I got
my motor built and it's almost done so
anyway I'm gonna wrap it up for now and
we'll uh we'll get back on get back on
in a little while